[overthinking]
Alright, so I have this multiple-choice question about a recursive procedure P. The question states that if P is guaranteed to terminate, which of the statements I, II, or III must be true. The options are A. I only, B. II only, C. I and II only, D. II and III only. The reasoning given is that the correct answer is B. II only. Hmm, let me try to understand why that is.

First, let me parse each statement one by one.

I. P has a local variable. So, does every recursive procedure need a local variable? Well, in programming, recursive procedures often do use local variables to keep track of state, especially in something like recursion. For example, in factorial, you have a local variable that increments with each recursive call. But wait, is it possible to have a recursive procedure without a local variable? Let me think. Suppose the procedure doesn't need to carry any state beyond its parameters. For example, a tail-recursive function where each call doesn't need a separate variable. But actually, even tail-recursive functions in practice often use a local variable to track the state. However, is it possible for a recursive function not to have any local variables? Maybe if all the state is carried through parameters. For example, consider a function that just adds 1 each time: P(n) = P(n-1). Here, P doesn't need a local variable because the state is in the parameter. So, in this case, P doesn't have a local variable. Therefore, I is not necessarily true.

II. P has an execution path where it does not call itself. That is, there is at least one base case where the procedure doesn't recursively call itself. Well, if a recursive procedure is guaranteed to terminate, it must have a base case. Otherwise, it would keep calling itself infinitely, right? So, in order for P to terminate, there has to be some execution path where it doesn't call itself. That makes sense. So II must be true.

III. P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter. Hmm, let's see. So if a procedure refers to a global variable, it doesn't need any parameters to pass information. Alternatively, if it has at least one parameter, it can pass information. Wait, but is this necessarily the case? Suppose P has no parameters and doesn't refer to any global variables. Then, how can it be recursive? Because if it doesn't refer to any global variables and has no parameters, how does it change its state? It seems like it would have to either have a local variable or refer to a global variable to carry some state. But if it's purely recursive without any variables, like the example I thought of earlier, P(n) = P(n-1). In that case, there's no local variable, but also, P doesn't refer to any global variable—it's just using the parameters. So in this case, P has no parameters except n, but it's not using a global variable either. So in this example, P has a parameter n, but it's not referring to a global variable. Therefore, the statement says that P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter. But in my example, P has a parameter, so that condition is satisfied. Wait, let me make sure. The statement says "either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter." So, in my example, since it has at least one parameter, condition III is satisfied. So is there any way P can be recursive, terminate, and neither refer to a global variable nor have a parameter? Let me think. Suppose P is defined as P(n) = P(n-1), with n being a parameter. So, it does have a parameter. Alternatively, if P doesn't have any parameters, can it refer to a global variable? Suppose P is like this: P() { P = P(); }. Wait, but then P is being assigned to itself, which would cause an infinite loop unless P is a base case. But that seems problematic. If P refers to a global variable, say Q, and is defined as P() { Q = Q(); }, is that possible? Wait, no, because if P has no parameters, it can't carry any state. So, if P is a recursive procedure without parameters, how does it terminate? Because it can't keep calling itself without any state. It would just keep calling itself infinitely. So, perhaps if P refers to a global variable, it can carry some state. So, for example, P() { Q = Q(); }, where Q is a global variable counting the number of times P has been called. But wait, unless there is a base case, it might not terminate. So, if P is defined as P() { Q = Q(); if Q > 0, return; else return; }, but that seems circular. Maybe I'm overcomplicating.

Wait, perhaps my initial thought was wrong. If P doesn't have any parameters and doesn't refer to any global variables, can it be recursive? Maybe not. Because without parameters or global variables, there's no way to track state or change the state between calls. So, for a recursive procedure to terminate, it must carry some state, which can be done either through parameters or through global variables. So, if a procedure is recursive and does not have parameters, it must refer to a global variable to carry its state. Therefore, if P is recursive, it must either refer to a global variable or have at least one parameter. Therefore, statement III is also necessarily true.

Wait, hold on. So earlier, I thought of an example where P(n) = P(n-1), which has a parameter but doesn't refer to any global variable. So in that case, it's recursive, has a parameter, doesn't refer to a global variable, and does terminate. So in that case, III is true because it has a parameter. So if a recursive procedure doesn't refer to a global variable, it must have a parameter? Or can it have neither?

Wait, if P is a recursive procedure without parameters and without referring to any global variables, is that possible? For it to terminate, it must have some condition where it doesn't call itself. But if it doesn't have parameters or global variables, how does it track its state? Let me think of a concrete example.

Suppose P is defined as:

P(n)
    if n = 0
        return
    else
        P(n-1)

Here, P has a parameter n, so in this case, it's using the parameter to carry the state. So, it doesn't refer to a global variable but has a parameter. So, in this case, statement III is satisfied because it has a parameter.

Another example: Suppose P is a recursive function that doesn't take any parameters. How can it be recursive? Without passing any state through parameters or global variables, it can't change its behavior. So, P would have to do something like P() { P(); }, which would cause an infinite loop, right? Because it's just calling itself without changing anything. So, unless there's a base case, it won't terminate.

Wait, let's say P is defined as:

P()
    if some global variable is set
        return
    else
        P()

But if there's no global variable, then P would infinitely call itself without any state change. So, in order for P to terminate, it must have a way to change its state. So, either through a local variable, a parameter, or a global variable. But if it's recursive and doesn't have parameters or local variables, it would need a global variable to carry some state. For example, a counter or something like that.

Wait, here's an example: Let's say we have a global variable called count, and P is defined as:

P()
    count = count + 1
    if count > 10
        return
    else
        P()

In this case, P is recursive, refers to a global variable, and terminates when count exceeds 10. So in this case, P neither has parameters nor a local variable but is recursive and terminates.

Alternatively, another example with a local variable:

P()
    let count = 0
    count = count + 1
    if count > 10
        return
    else
        P()

Here, P has a local variable. So, in this case, it's recursive, has a local variable, and terminates.

So, in both cases, the recursive procedure either refers to a global variable or has a local variable. Wait, but statement III says "either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter." Wait, in the first example, P refers to a global variable, doesn't have a parameter or a local variable. In the second example, P has a local variable, doesn't refer to a global variable, but it has a parameter n in the first example. Wait, hold on.

Wait, the question says "If P is guaranteed to terminate, which of the following statements must be true?" So, statement III is: P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter. So, in the first case, P refers to a global variable and does not have a parameter or a local variable. In the second case, P has a local variable and a parameter. So, whether it refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter, both satisfy statement III.

But in the second example, P(n) = P(n-1). So, it has a parameter, doesn't refer to a global variable, and has no local variable. So, statement III is satisfied because it has a parameter. But in the first example, P refers to a global variable, doesn't have a parameter or local variable. So, statement III is also satisfied.

Wait, so in both cases, statement III holds. So, does that mean that statement III must be true for any recursive procedure that terminates? Hmm, is there a recursive procedure that neither refers to a global variable nor has a parameter? From my earlier reasoning, it seems that without parameters or global variables, the procedure can't track any state, so it can't terminate because it would call itself indefinitely. Therefore, statement III must be true.

But wait, earlier I thought that statement I was not necessarily true. For example, P(n) = P(n-1) doesn't have a local variable. So, statement I is not necessarily true, but statement III is necessarily true because any recursive procedure that terminates must either refer to a global variable or have a parameter.

So, if that's the case, then statements II and III must be true, which would make the answer D. II and III only. But the original reasoning said that the correct answer is B. II only.

Wait, so now I'm confused. Let me re-examine.

First, statement I: P has a local variable.

As in the example P(n) = P(n-1), P doesn't have a local variable. So, I is not necessarily true.

Statement II: P has an execution path where it does not call itself.

Yes, because otherwise, it wouldn't terminate; so II must be true.

Statement III: P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter.

Wait, in my first example, P refers to a global variable and doesn't have a parameter. In the second example, P has a parameter but doesn't refer to a global variable. So, statement III is always true because if it doesn't refer to a global variable, it must have a parameter; if it doesn't have a parameter, it must refer to a global variable. So, statement III must be true.

Therefore, both II and III must be true, so the correct answer is D.

But the original reasoning said it's B. II only. So, perhaps I'm missing something.

Wait, maybe in statement III, does referring to a global variable count as a parameter? Or is that separate?

Wait, no. A parameter is a variable that's passed into a function, while a global variable is a variable declared outside the function's scope. So, referring to a global variable doesn't require a parameter.

So, statement III is: P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter. So, in the case where P refers to a global variable, it doesn't need to have a parameter. So, statement III is saying that P must either use a global variable or have a parameter, or both.

Therefore, if P doesn't refer to a global variable, it must have a parameter. So, in the example P(n) = P(n-1), it has a parameter, so statement III is satisfied. In the example where P refers to a global variable, like count++, it doesn't have a parameter, but refers to a global variable, so statement III is satisfied. If P had neither, then it couldn't be recursive and terminate, so statement III is necessarily true.

Therefore, II and III must be true. So, the answer must be D.

But the original reasoning said it was B. II only. So, perhaps I'm misinterpreting statement III.

Wait, the original question says: III. P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter. So, it's an OR condition. So, as long as it's true that either one holds, statement III is true.

Given that, for a recursive procedure to terminate, it must have a way to carry state, which can be done via parameters or global variables. So, if it doesn't refer to a global variable, it must have a parameter. So, statement III is always true.

Therefore, II and III must be true, so the answer is D.

But the original reasoning says it's B. II only. So, perhaps I'm overcomplicating.

Wait, maybe the distinction lies in whether "parameters" refer to the arguments of the function or if they are local variables. But no, parameters are the arguments, local variables are separate.

Wait, perhaps in the question, statement III is phrased as "has at least one parameter", meaning that the procedure must have a parameter. But in the example where P refers to a global variable, it doesn't have a parameter. So, does statement III say "either refers to a global variable OR has at least one parameter", which would include both cases. So, in that case, statement III is also true, so D.

But the original reasoning was that the correct answer is B. Maybe in the original question, statement III was different? Wait, let me check.

No, the original question does say: III. P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter.

So, I think that in reality, both II and III are necessarily true, so the answer is D.

But the original answer was B. II only. So, perhaps the original reasoning was incorrect?

Wait, perhaps in statement III, if a procedure refers to a global variable, it doesn't necessarily have to have a parameter. So, in that case, statement III is also true. But in the case where it doesn't refer to a global variable, it must have at least one parameter. Therefore, statement III is necessarily true.

Therefore, the correct answer should be D.

But the original reasoning was B. So, maybe in the original question, statement III was different, or perhaps the reasoning was flawed.

Wait, perhaps I misread the original question. Let me double-check.

Original question:

There is a multiple-choice question: Let P be a procedure that for some inputs calls itself (i.e., is recursive). If P is guaranteed to terminate, which of the following statements must be true?

I. P has a local variable.

II. P has an execution path where it does not call itself.

III. P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter.

The options are: A. I only, B. II only, C. I and II only, D. II and III only.

Why the correct answer is: B. II only?

Wait, maybe the reasoning is that statement III is not necessarily true.

Wait, if statement III is "P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter," so in the case where P refers to a global variable, it's okay, but if P has neither a global variable nor a parameter, is that possible?

Wait, let me think again. If a recursive procedure doesn't refer to any global variables and doesn't have any parameters, can it terminate? Let's see.

Suppose P is defined as:

P()
    P()

This is an infinite loop. It doesn't have a base case, so it doesn't terminate.

Alternatively, if P has a base case:

P()
    if some condition
        return
    else
        P()

But without any variables or parameters, there's no way to conditionally call itself. So, the condition must somehow be based on the parameter or a local variable or a global variable.

Wait, but without parameters or global variables, the condition can't change, right? So, unless it has a base case based on some local variable, which requires a local variable.

Wait, but if P doesn't have any local variables and doesn't refer to any global variables, then it can't have a base case. Therefore, it can't terminate because it would just call itself forever.

Thus, in order for P to terminate, it must have a base case, which requires some kind of state, which can be either through parameters, local variables, or global variables.

Therefore, statement III is necessarily true because if it doesn't refer to a global variable, it must have at least one parameter.

But wait, in the case where it has a parameter, n, and it uses n to track the state, then it doesn't refer to a global variable but has a parameter. So, statement III is satisfied.

Therefore, both II and III must be true. So, the correct answer is D.

But the original reasoning says B. II only.

Hmm. Maybe the original reasoning was incorrect. Perhaps in the original reasoning, statement III was not considered.

Alternatively, perhaps the original question was slightly different, but as per the current information, statements II and III must be true.

Wait, perhaps the confusion is about whether having a parameter is necessary or whether referring to a global variable is sufficient. But in the case where it refers to a global variable, it doesn't need a parameter. So, statement III is "either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter." So, in either case, statement III is satisfied.

So, if the procedure refers to a global variable, it doesn't need a parameter. If it doesn't refer to a global variable, it must have at least one parameter.

Therefore, statement III must be true.

Thus, II and III must be true, making D the correct answer.

But if the original reasoning says B, then perhaps they only considered statement II, but that seems incomplete.

Alternatively, maybe statement III is not necessarily true because the procedure could refer to a
[overthinking]
Alright, so I have this question about a recursive procedure P that's guaranteed to terminate. The question is asking which of the statements I, II, or III must be true. The options are A (I only), B (II only), C (I and II only), D (II and III only). The correct answer is supposed to be B, II only, but I want to make sure I understand why that is.

First, let's parse each statement.

Statement I: "P has a local variable." Hmm. So does every recursive procedure require a local variable? Hmm. Let me think. If a procedure is recursive, it must call itself, right? So when it calls itself, it needs to pass along some information, like the parameters. But does that necessarily require a local variable? Or can the parameters be used as variables without needing a local variable?

Wait, if P calls itself, it must pass along some state, like the current value or something. But in a language like ML or Haskell, you can have recursive functions without using local variables in the recursive calls because you can just pass the necessary parameters along. But in an imperative language like C or Pascal, recursive functions usually require at least some local variables to store intermediate results or for the recursion to work. Hmm, but the question doesn't specify the programming language. So maybe we can't assume it's an imperative language.

Wait, the question just says "for some inputs calls itself," so maybe it's not necessarily in an imperative language. So does a recursive function have to have a local variable? Maybe not. For example, in a purely functional language, recursive functions don't need local variables because they can pass the necessary information as parameters. So statement I might not necessarily be true.

Statement II: "P has an execution path where it does not call itself." So does every recursive procedure have a path where it doesn't call itself? Well, if the procedure is recursive, it must call itself at some point, but is there an execution path where it doesn't call itself? Hmm, that might be the base case. Like, if you have a recursive function that terminates, it will eventually reach a base case where it doesn't call itself. For example, consider the factorial function. It has a base case where it returns 1 without calling itself. So, in that case, every recursive procedure that terminates must have a base case where it doesn't call itself. So statement II must be true.

Statement III: "P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter." Hmm. So does every recursive procedure either refer to a global variable or have at least one parameter? Let's think. If a procedure is recursive, it must call itself. So, when it calls itself, it needs to pass along some information. If it doesn't have any parameters, how can it pass along that information? It would need some way to store intermediate state, but if it doesn't have any parameters, it can't pass it through the recursive calls. So, in that case, it would need a global variable. Or maybe a local variable? Wait, earlier I was unsure about statement I. If a recursive function without parameters doesn't have a local variable, how can it store the state?

Wait, if it's a purely functional language, without local variables, then a recursive function without parameters would just call itself with the same arguments, but if it's supposed to terminate, it must have some way to change the arguments each time. So without parameters, how? Unless it refers to some global state or variable. So if a recursive function doesn't have any parameters, maybe it must refer to a global variable because it needs to pass along some state that's not in the parameters.

So, statement III is saying that either it refers to a global variable or it has at least one parameter. So, if it doesn't refer to a global variable, it must have at least one parameter. That makes sense because otherwise, it can't pass along the necessary information for the recursion to terminate.

Wait, but if a recursive function has a local variable, then maybe it doesn't need to refer to a global variable or have parameters? Or does it? Hmm, for example, in an imperative language like C, you can have a recursive function with a local variable that accumulates the result. So in that case, it doesn't refer to a global variable and doesn't necessarily have parameters beyond the initial ones. Wait, no, if you have a recursive function, you must at least pass some parameters, right? Unless it's a tail recursion without any additional parameters, but in that case, it might not need to pass anything else.

Wait, I'm getting confused. Let's take an example. Let's say we have a recursive function that computes the Fibonacci sequence. It needs to keep track of the previous two numbers. So in an imperative language, it can have local variables to store them. So in that case, it doesn't refer to a global variable and it has at least one parameter (or multiple parameters). So statement III is saying it must either refer to a global variable or have at least one parameter.

But is statement III always true? Suppose we have a recursive function that does refer to a global variable. Like, it counts the number of times it's been called and uses that to terminate. So if it refers to a global variable, it doesn't need to have parameters. Or, if it doesn't refer to a global variable, does it necessarily have at least one parameter? I think so, because otherwise, how would it pass along the necessary state for recursion.

But is that always the case? Suppose we have a recursive function that doesn't refer to a global variable and doesn't have any parameters. How could that function terminate? It seems impossible because each recursive call would have the same arguments, leading to infinite recursion. So, for a recursive function to terminate, it must have a way to change its state with each call. So if it doesn't have parameters, it's likely referring to a global variable. Alternatively, if it doesn't refer to a global variable, it must have parameters to pass along the state.

Therefore, statement III seems to be true as well. But wait, statement II is also true. So according to the answer given, only II is true. So why is statement III not necessarily true? Or is my reasoning flawed?

Wait, let's think again. Maybe in some languages, a recursive function without parameters can terminate without referring to a global variable. For instance, in a language with tail recursion optimization, a function like:

f(n):
    if n == 0: return
    f(n-1)

This function terminates, doesn't refer to any global variables, and doesn't have any parameters beyond n. So in this case, statement III is false because it doesn't refer to a global variable and doesn't have any parameters (except for n). Wait, but n is a parameter, right? So the function has a parameter, so statement III is true here because it has at least one parameter.

Wait, so statement III says "P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter." So if a function has a parameter, even if it doesn't refer to a global variable, statement III is still true. So in the tail recursion example, it has a parameter, so it satisfies statement III.

But what if a recursive function doesn't have any parameters? For example, a recursive function that just calls itself without any parameters. Then, unless it refers to a global variable, it can't have any state change, right? So if it doesn't refer to a global variable, and doesn't have any parameters, it can't pass along any information, so it would lead to infinite recursion. But the question states that P is guaranteed to terminate, so such a function couldn't exist because it wouldn't terminate. So, in that case, such a function without parameters and without referring to a global variable is impossible because it can't terminate.

Therefore, for a recursive procedure to terminate, it must either refer to a global variable or have at least one parameter. So statement III seems to hold.

Wait, but in the question, the correct answer is B, which is only II. So maybe my reasoning about statement III is wrong.

Alternatively, perhaps the question is considering whether the procedure has "parameters" in the sense of being a function with more than one parameter? Or maybe it's in a language where every function has at least one parameter? Hmm. The question says "parameters" without specifying.

Wait, in programming languages, a function can have zero parameters. So a recursive function can have zero parameters, like in the example I gave before: f(n) calls itself with n-1. But in that case, it has one parameter. Wait, to have zero parameters, how? If the function doesn't have any parameters, how can it call itself? Unless it refers to a global variable.

Wait, maybe in a language where functions can have zero parameters and still be called without any arguments. For example, in ML, a function like f = fun () => f(); this would be a recursive function that calls itself without any parameters. But does it terminate? No, because it's an infinite loop. So in that case, the function cannot terminate. Therefore, if a function is recursive and has zero parameters, it can't terminate unless it refers to a global variable. But how can it refer to a global variable without parameters? It seems impossible.

Wait, perhaps a function can have a global variable and have zero parameters. For example, in C, you can have a function with zero parameters that modifies a global variable. So, in that case, the function can be recursive and terminate by modifying the global variable each time.

So, in that case, it's possible for a recursive function with zero parameters to terminate if it refers to a global variable. But if a recursive function doesn't refer to a global variable, it needs to have at least one parameter to pass along the necessary state.

Therefore, statement III is saying that either it refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter. So both possibilities are covered. So statement III must be true as well.

But the correct answer is B, which is only II. So I'm conflicting here. Maybe I'm misinterpreting statement III.

Statement III: "P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter."

Wait, in the case where P has a local variable, does it imply that it refers to a global variable or has parameters? Hmm, not necessarily. Because if P uses a local variable, it doesn't have to refer to a global variable or have parameters beyond the initial ones. Wait, in an imperative language, to have a recursive call, you can have a loop or pass along parameters. So perhaps if a function uses a local variable, it can be recursive without referring to a global variable or having additional parameters beyond the initial ones.

Wait, for example, let's consider a function that increments a counter each time and stops when it reaches a certain value. In an imperative language like C, it could have a loop with a local variable. So, for example:

void P() {
    int count = 0;
    while (count < 10) {
        count++;
        // some work
    }
}

This is not recursive, but it's similar in that it has a loop. But for recursion, maybe:

void P(int count) {
    if (count >= 10) return;
    // some work
    P(count + 1);
}

Here, P has a parameter, so statement III is satisfied. So in this case, it does have a parameter.

Alternatively, in a functional language, can you have recursion without parameters? Like, a function that calls itself without any parameters. But as I thought earlier, that would cause infinite recursion unless it refers to a global variable.

Wait, but in a functional language, functions can have zero parameters. For example, in Haskell, a function could be defined as:

f = f

But that would be an infinite loop. So in that case, to make it terminate, it must refer to a global variable or have a parameter.

Wait, but in a functional language, a function can refer to a global variable without parameters. For example:

f :: a -> a
f x = f x

But that's still an infinite loop. So unless it somehow mutates the global variable, but in a functional language, variables are immutable.

Wait, in a functional language, functions can't modify global variables because they are supposed to be immutable. So, you can't have a recursive function in a functional language that terminates by referring to a global variable because you can't mutate it. So in that case, a recursive function in a functional language must have parameters to pass along the state.

So, in that case, if a function is recursive and doesn't have parameters, it cannot terminate in a functional language because it can't refer to a global variable to carry state. Therefore, in a functional language, every recursive function must have at least one parameter.

But the question doesn't specify the language. So, considering an imperative language, a recursive function without parameters could refer to a global variable to carry state, thus allowing it to terminate. So, statement III would be true because it refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter.

But if the language is functional, then a recursive function without parameters can't terminate, so such functions don't exist. Therefore, if a function is recursive and terminates, in a functional language, it must have at least one parameter. So statement III is true.

Wait, now I'm getting more confused because whether statement III is true seems to depend on the programming language, which isn't specified.

But in the question, it's stated that P is a procedure that calls itself, so it's a recursive procedure. If P is guaranteed to terminate, then it must have a way to pass along state. So either through parameters or through a global variable.

But in a functional language, global variables are immutable, so you can't use them to carry state. Therefore, in functional languages, recursive functions must have parameters to carry state. In imperative languages, you could use global variables.

But since the question doesn't specify the language, we can't be sure. So, perhaps statement III isn't necessarily true because in some languages, you can have a recursive function without parameters and with a global variable.

But the problem is, in a functional language, a recursive function without parameters can't terminate, so in that case, the function wouldn't be considered terminating. So perhaps since the question says P is guaranteed to terminate, then if it's written in a language where functions can't refer to global variables for state (like functional languages), then P must have at least one parameter. But if it's written in an imperative language, it can refer to a global variable without parameters.

But again, the question doesn't specify the language. So, without knowing the language, statement III isn't necessarily true because in some languages it could refer to a global variable, and in others, it must have a parameter.

But hold on, the question is about a recursive procedure that is guaranteed to terminate. So in any case, for the recursion to terminate, it must have a way to reduce the state each time. So, either the function must have parameters to pass the state along, or it must refer to a global variable that it can modify to carry the state through each recursive call.

But in a functional language, functions can't modify global variables, so they must have parameters. In an imperative language, they can modify a global variable without parameters, but wait, can they? If the function has no parameters, how can it pass information to the next recursive call? It can't, unless it refers to a global variable.

Wait, I think I need to clarify. In an imperative language, functions can have zero parameters, but when they call themselves recursively, they can't pass any new information. So, unless they refer to a global variable that holds the state, they can't terminate. So, for example:

void P() {
    static int count = 0;
    if (count >= 10) return;
    P();
    count++;
}

This function would have a static variable (global) and it increments the count each time. So, it's a recursive function without parameters that can terminate by referring to a global variable. So, in that case, statement III is true because it refers to a global variable.

Alternatively, a function can have a parameter and not refer to a global variable. For example:

void P(int count) {
    if (count >= 10) return;
    P(count + 1);
}

Here, it has a parameter and doesn't refer to a global variable. So, statement III is also satisfied.

But if the function has zero parameters and doesn't refer to a global variable, it can't pass any information along, so it can't terminate. So, if a function is recursive and has zero parameters, it must refer to a global variable to carry the state; otherwise, it can't terminate. Therefore, in such a case, statement III is true because it refers to a global variable.

So, statement III seems to hold in both cases: whether the function refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter. Therefore, statement III must be true.

But wait, the correct answer is supposed to be B, which is only statement II. So, maybe the question is considering that statement III is not necessarily true because if a function uses a local variable, it doesn't necessarily refer to a global variable or have a parameter. Hmm, no, if it uses a local variable, it might be passing it along through parameters, or it might be using a different mechanism.

Wait, maybe I'm overcomplicating it. Let's try a different approach.

Let me re-examine the three statements:

I. P has a local variable.

II. P has an execution path where it does not call itself.

III. P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter.

We need to determine which of these must be true.

Given that P is recursive and terminates.

First, statement II. Since P is recursive, it must have a base case where it doesn't call itself. Otherwise, it would never terminate. So, statement II is definitely true.

Statement I: Does every recursive procedure have a local variable? Hmm. For example, in a purely functional language, recursive functions don't need local variables because they can pass the necessary information through parameters. So, in such a language, you can have a recursive function without any local variables. Therefore, statement I is not necessarily true.

Statement III: Does every recursive procedure either refer to a global variable or have at least one parameter? As I thought earlier, in an imperative language, you can have a function with zero parameters that refers to a global variable and thus can terminate. However, in a functional language, you can't refer to a global variable for state because they're immutable, so you must have at least one parameter. But in the question, the language isn't specified, so we can't be sure that statement III is always true.

Wait, but actually, in a functional language, a
[overthinking]
Okay, so I have this multiple-choice question related to recursion in procedures. Let me try to unpack it step by step.

The question says: Let P be a procedure that for some inputs calls itself (i.e., is recursive). If P is guaranteed to terminate, which of the following statements must be true? The options are I, II, III, and the possible answers are A, B, C, D.

The answer is supposed to be B, which is II only. But I need to understand why that is the case. Let me go through each statement and analyze them.

First, let's restate the question to make sure I get it. We have a recursive procedure P. That means, for some inputs, when P is called, it will call itself. So, it's got a recursive call somewhere in it. Now, the question is saying that P is guaranteed to terminate. So, regardless of the input, P will not go into an infinite loop or anything; it will eventually stop executing.

Now, the statements I, II, III are making claims about P. I need to figure out which of these must be true if P is guaranteed to terminate.

Statement I: P has a local variable.

Hmm. So, does a recursive procedure necessarily have a local variable? Well, in many programming languages, a recursive function does have local variables because each recursive call creates a new stack frame with its own variables. For example, in functions written in Python or Java, each recursive call has its own local variables.

But wait, is it possible to write a recursive procedure without any local variables? In some languages, like Scheme, perhaps? Wait, in Scheme, functions are defined with parameters, and recursion would use the same variables if they are in the same scope. Hmm, maybe not necessarily. Or maybe it's about the stack frames. Wait, each recursive call would need to have its own stack frame with variables. So, in that sense, yes, it would have a local variable.

But hold on, maybe if the procedure doesn't use any variables that require being local because they are only read from or written to within the procedure. For example, is the procedure using any variables that are only local because of some visibility rules? Hmm, no, in a recursive procedure, each call is independent in terms of variables. So, perhaps the procedure must have at least one local variable because otherwise, the recursion would interfere with variables in the caller's scope.

Wait, but maybe in some languages, you don't need to declare variables as local because of scoping rules. For instance, in a functional programming language, everything is either global or in the current scope. But if P is recursive, it might need variables that are unique to each call. So, is it possible for a recursive procedure to not have any local variables? Or does it necessarily require at least one?

I'm a bit unsure here. Maybe in some cases, you can have a recursive procedure without local variables, but generally, recursion does involve some form of local variables because each recursive call is a new instance of the function. So, perhaps Statement I is true. But I need to think more.

Statement II: P has an execution path where it does not call itself.

Okay, this seems more interesting. Since P is recursive, it must have at least one call where it calls itself, right? Because otherwise, it's not recursive. So, for example, in a recursive function, the base case is the execution path where it doesn't call itself. But the presence of a base case is essential for termination. Without the base case, the recursion would be infinite, which would mean the procedure doesn't terminate.

But wait, the question says P is guaranteed to terminate. So, in order for P to terminate, there must be a base case where it stops calling itself. So, P must have an execution path where it doesn't call itself—otherwise, it would loop forever.

Therefore, Statement II must be true.

Statement III: P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter.

Hmm, so does a recursive procedure need to refer to a global variable or have at least one parameter?

Well, in some languages, recursion is about calling the same function with modified parameters. For example, in a factorial function, each recursive call reduces the parameter n by 1. So, it's using parameters.

But could you have a recursive function that doesn't have parameters and instead refers to global variables? For example, in Scheme, maybe you could have a recursive function that uses a global variable to track something.

But is that necessary? Alternatively, could a recursive function not refer to any global variables and still be recursive? Well, yes, if the function has parameters. So, if a function is recursive, it either needs to have parameters (so that each call changes the parameters in some way) or it can refer to a global variable that's being modified.

But does every recursive procedure need to have at least one parameter or refer to a global variable?

Wait, think of a recursive function in, say, C. A recursive function in C must have a base case and a recursive call. The function signature includes parameters. So, in that case, the function must have at least one parameter because otherwise, you can't have a recursive call without modifying the parameters. But in some languages, like Lisp, you can have a function without parameters that refers to a global variable and recursively calls itself based on that.

So, in some cases, it can be done without parameters by referring to a global variable. So, is Statement III necessarily true? It says P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter.

So, if P is recursive, it can either have parameters or refer to a global variable, but is it necessary?

Wait, no. In some languages, functions can be recursive without parameters if they use other means to differentiate between calls. For example, in some functional languages, you can have a function that takes no arguments but uses a variable that's mutated externally to track the state, allowing recursion to progress.

So, in that case, the function has no parameters but refers to a global variable. So, in that case, it satisfies the "either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter."

But wait, can you have a recursive function that refers to neither a global variable nor has parameters?

Hmm, is that possible? For example, in a purely functional language like Haskell, all functions have parameters. So, in Haskell, a recursive function must have parameters.

But in languages like Scheme or Lisp, you can have functions without parameters that still recurse by referring to global variables.

But in some languages, if you don't have parameters, and you can't refer to a global variable, can you have recursion? For example, in a purely procedural language like C, you can't have recursion without parameters. So, in C, every function must have parameters to be recursive.

So, perhaps in some languages, recursion requires parameters, in others, it can be done with global variables. So, is Statement III always true? Or can we have a recursive function that refers to neither a global variable nor has parameters?

Wait, in a purely functional language, functions take parameters. So, if you have a function that takes no parameters, how can it be recursive? It can't, unless it refers to something else. So, maybe in functional languages, recursion requires parameters because you need to pass different arguments each time.

But in languages like Python or JavaScript, you can write a recursive function without parameters, but it wouldn't really be useful. For example, a function that just calls itself without changing any parameters would be an infinite recursion. So, in order to have a terminating recursion, the function needs to somehow change its parameters each time.

So, in that case, perhaps Statement III is not necessarily true because you can have a recursive function that refers to neither a global variable nor has parameters, but that would not terminate. Because without a base case or a way to change its state, it would just loop infinitely.

Wait, but in the question, P is guaranteed to terminate. So, if P is recursive and it's guaranteed to terminate, does that mean it must refer to a global variable or have a parameter?

Wait, suppose we have a recursive function that doesn't have parameters and doesn't refer to any global variables. How could it possibly terminate? Because each call would be identical to the previous one, so it would just go into an infinite loop.

Therefore, in order to terminate, a recursive function must have a way to eventually not call itself. Which could involve either changing parameters (so that each call is slightly different) or referring to a global variable that is being modified in each call.

Wait, but referring to a global variable might not necessarily change each call. For example, if the global variable is being incremented each time, but if it's not, then again, you might have an infinite loop.

Wait, perhaps I'm overcomplicating this.

The question is: if P is guaranteed to terminate, which statements must be true.

Statement I: P has a local variable.

Statement II: P has an execution path where it does not call itself.

Statement III: P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter.

From earlier, I think Statement II must be true because for termination, there must be a base case where it doesn't call itself.

Regarding Statement III, I think it might not necessarily be true because in some languages, you can have a recursive function without parameters and without referring to a global variable, but that function wouldn't terminate. But wait, in the question, P is guaranteed to terminate, so maybe if it's recursive, it needs to have a way to terminate, which could involve having a parameter to count down or something.

But wait, is that necessarily the case?

Alternatively, maybe in some recursive functions, you can have side effects that modify a global variable to track the recursion depth.

For example, suppose you have a global counter that increments each time a recursive call is made. When the counter reaches a certain value, the function stops.

In that case, the function doesn't have parameters but refers to a global variable. So, the function satisfies Statement III.

Alternatively, if a function has parameters, like n, that count down each time, that also would satisfy Statement III.

But in the question, is it possible to have a recursive function that doesn't refer to any global variables and doesn't have any parameters but still terminates?

Wait, if the function doesn't have parameters and doesn't refer to any global variables, how would it change its behavior from one call to another? It seems like it would have to do the same thing every time, leading to infinite recursion.

Therefore, for a recursive function to terminate, it must have a way to differentiate each call, which could be through parameters or through a global variable that it's modifying. So, in that sense, Statement III must be true.

But hold on, Statement III says "either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter." So, in the case where the function refers to a global variable, it doesn't need to have a parameter. But if it refers to a global variable, it's modifying that variable across calls, right? So, that's a way to track the recursion depth without parameters.

But in that case, if the function refers to a global variable, is that a necessity?

Wait, suppose in a language where functions can have side effects, you can have a recursive function without parameters that modifies a global variable each time it's called. Then, after a certain number of calls, the function can stop. So, that would satisfy the termination condition.

Therefore, Statement III would be true in that case, because it refers to a global variable.

Alternatively, a function could have parameters that change each time, like in factorial: f(n) = n * f(n-1). So, each call reduces the parameter n by 1, eventually reaching 0, at which point the recursion stops.

So, in that case, the function has parameters.

Therefore, in both cases, the function either has a parameter or refers to a global variable.

Wait, but in the case where it refers to a global variable, is it necessary? Or can a function refer to a global variable without parameters? Yes, but in that case, you have to have the global variable. So, does that mean that if a function is recursive and terminates, it must refer to a global variable or have parameters? It seems so.

But, hold on, in functional programming languages like Haskell, all functions have parameters, and they cannot refer to global variables in the same way as, say, Python or JavaScript. So, in Haskell, you can't have a global variable that's modified in a recursive function because everything is pure. So, in that case, all recursive functions in Haskell must have parameters.

But in languages like Python or Scheme, you can have a global variable that is being modified during recursion.

But the question is not tied to any specific language. It's a general question about procedures. So, in the most general case, a recursive procedure can either refer to a global variable or have parameters.

Wait, but perhaps if a recursive procedure has neither, it cannot terminate.

So, if a procedure is recursive and doesn't have any parameters and doesn't refer to any global variables, then each recursive call is identical, which would cause an infinite loop. Therefore, to terminate, it must have a way to change its behavior each time, which can be done either by having parameters or referring to a global variable.

Therefore, Statement III must be true.

But wait, in the original answer, it was B, which is II only. So, the responder said that only Statement II must be true.

So, maybe my reasoning on Statement III is incorrect.

Let me revisit Statement III: P either refers to a global variable or has at least one parameter.

So, in some languages, recursion doesn't require parameters or global variables, but I think in the context of guaranteed termination, it must.

But wait, perhaps if a procedure is recursive without parameters or global variables, it can still have a base case. Wait, no, the base case is where it doesn't call itself. But in a recursive procedure without parameters or global variables, how would it know when to stop? It would just keep calling itself the same way.

Therefore, in order to have a base case, the recursive calls must be able to stop at some point. So, for that, the procedure must have a way to know when to stop, which could be through parameters or global variables.

But in the case of a function with no parameters and no global variable references, like in some functional languages, you can't have a base case because there's no state to track. Or wait, actually, in some languages, you can have a function with no parameters that refers to a global variable that counts the depth.

But without parameters or global variables, the function can't track any state, so it can't have a base case, hence can't terminate.

Therefore, Statement III must be true because without either parameters or global variables, the procedure can't have a base case and thus can't terminate.

Wait, but wait, the question says "P is guaranteed to terminate". So, if P is recursive and terminates, it must have a base case, which requires either parameters that change each time or a way to track state, which could involve a global variable.

Therefore, Statement III must be true.

Wait, now I'm confused because according to my initial analysis, both II and III must be true. But the answer was B, which is only II.

So, perhaps I made a mistake in Statement III.

Wait, perhaps the key here is that in the question, it's a procedure that for some inputs calls itself. So, perhaps for some inputs, it's recursive, but not for all. Hmm, but the question says "Let P be a procedure that for some inputs calls itself (i.e., is recursive)."

Wait, that wording is a bit ambiguous. Does it mean that P is recursive in general, meaning that for all inputs, it may call itself? Or does it mean that for some specific inputs, it calls itself?

Hmm, the parenthetical says "(i.e., is recursive)", so I think it's saying that P is a recursive procedure. So, P is a recursive procedure, meaning for some inputs, it calls itself. So, it's a general recursive procedure.

Therefore, in that case, the reasoning applies: to terminate, it must have a base case, so Statement II is true. Also, to have a base case, it must have a way to know when to stop, which would involve either parameters that change or a global variable. So, III is also true.

But since the answer is B, II only, I must have an error.

Wait, maybe Statement III is not necessarily true. Maybe a procedure can be recursive without referring to a global variable or having parameters, but that would require changing state in some other way.

Wait, but without parameters or global variables, how does a procedure track its state? In some languages, like C, you can't have recursion without parameters because you need to pass some information along, so each call must have different parameters. In languages like Scheme or Python, you can have functions without parameters, but they can still be recursive by referring to a global variable.

But is it possible to have a recursive procedure that doesn't refer to any global variables and doesn't have parameters but still terminates? It seems not, because there's no way to track the recursion depth or change the behavior of the function.

Therefore, without parameters or a global variable, the function can't have a base case, hence can't terminate.

Therefore, if a procedure is recursive and guaranteed to terminate, it must have a base case (so II is true) and it must have a way to track the recursion (so III is true).

But the answer was B, which is only II. So, perhaps I'm wrong.

Wait, maybe in some cases, the function can have a parameter that's modified, but that's not necessary. Wait, no, the question is in the context of a multiple-choice question, so perhaps Statement III is not necessarily true.

Wait, perhaps in some languages, a recursive procedure can refer to a global variable, but it's not necessarily true that it has at least one parameter or refers to a global variable.

Wait, but if it's recursive and doesn't refer to a global variable or have a parameter, then it can't have a base case, hence can't terminate.

Therefore, in order for P to terminate, it must have a base case, so II is true, and it must have a way to know when to stop, so either through parameters or global variables, so III is true.

But the answer was B, II only.

Hmm, perhaps I'm overcomplicating. Maybe in the original question, Statement III is not necessarily true because a recursive procedure could refer to a global variable but doesn't need to have parameters. So, perhaps the responder thought that having global variables is not necessary, but having a base case (II) is necessary, so only II must be true.

Wait, but if a recursive procedure refers to